---
title: What I'm Reading | 2016-06-12 - 2016-06-18
---

### [My First 10 Minutes On a Server - Primer for Securing Ubuntu - Cody Littlewood](http://www.codelitt.com/blog/my-first-10-minutes-on-a-server-primer-for-securing-ubuntu/)

1. We don't even have a password for our root user yet. We'll want to select
   something random and complex. We use a password manager's password generater
set to the most difficult setting.

2. ssh keys are better than passwords only because they contain and require
   more information.

3. There are usually two camps. Those who use IPtables directly and those who
   use a handy interface called ufw which is a layer on top of IPtables meant
to simplify things.

4. fail2ban is a great package that actively blocks suspicious activity as it
   occurs.

### [How Kids Learn Resilience - Paul Tough](http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2016/06/how-kids-really-succeed/480744/)

5. Over the past decade, neuroscientists have demonstrated with increasing
   clarity how severe and chronic stress in childhood—what doctors sometimes
call toxic stress—leads to physiological and neurological adaptations in
children that affect the way their minds and bodies develop and, significantly,
the way they function in school.

6. On a cognitive level, chronically elevated stress can disrupt the
   development of what are known as executive functions: higher-order mental
abilities

7. The most important environmental factor in children’s early lives,
   researchers have shown, is the way their parents and other adults interact
with them.

8. Calm, consistent, responsive interactions in infancy with parents and other
   caregivers create neural connections that lay the foundation for a healthy
array of attention and concentration skills.

9. With the neurobiological research in mind, it’s easy to see that kind of
   behavior—refusing to do what adults tell you to do, basically—as an
expression not of a bad attitude or a defiant personality but of a poorly
regulated stress-response system

10. Farrington has distilled this voluminous mind-set research into four key
    beliefs that, when embraced by students, seem to contribute most
significantly to their tendency to persevere in the classroom: I belong in this
academic community. My ability and competence grow with my effort. I can
succeed at this. This work has value for me.

### [A Learning Secret: Don’t Take Notes with a Laptop - Cindi May](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/a-learning-secret-don-t-take-notes-with-a-laptop/)

1. when students take notes using laptops they tend to take notes verbatim,
   writing down every last word uttered by their professor

2. New research by Pam Mueller and Daniel Oppenheimer demonstrates that
   students who write out their notes on paper actually learn more.

3. Thus, taking notes by hand forces the brain to engage in some heavy “mental
   lifting,” and these efforts foster comprehension and retention.  By
contrast, when typing students can easily produce a written record of the
lecture without processing its meaning, as faster typing speeds allow students
to transcribe a lecture word for word without devoting much thought to the
content.

4.  Because longhand notes contain students’ own words and handwriting, they
    may serve as more effective memory cues by recreating the context (e.g.,
thought processes, emotions, conclusions) as well as content (e.g., individual
facts) from the original learning session.

5. The research by Mueller and Oppenheimer serves as a reminder, however, that
   even when technology allows us to do more in less time, it does not always
foster learning.  Learning involves more than the receipt and the regurgitation
of information.

